there's no attacks
I haven't said anybody's name it doesn't
know the hiring of an actual attorney
claiming in part the cost please
but failed to mention please
please there was a meeting that was
called a few minutes are up please
I'd like my two minutes back I was
interrupted I'm sorry
can we have a vote on it no
no chairs
okay all right thank you
okay yeah
next up it's Doug Patterson
Doug Patterson's for the record um I am
basically came to ask you to proceed as
fast as you can and as thoroughly as you
can with a forensic audit there are
people out there that I know that are
willing to contribute money towards it
but it needs to be secure the money
needs to be secure and for a forensic
audit only
until that can be done proceed as you
will but please bring us a forensic
order thank you
[Applause]
foreign next up is Sandy Brower
I actually have my comments about the
agenda agenda item approval board
minutes why is the board not approving
minutes from meetings held in June and
July especially a board meeting where
the board approved
start my minute it's over
if I need to repeat sorry yeah so um
agenda item approval of the board
minutes why is the board not approving
minutes from meetings held in June and
July especially a board meeting where
the board approved a district emergency
old business I have serious concerns
with the forensic proposal potential
approval tonight I reviewed Idaho code
and filled that the superintendent as
directed by the board has failed to be
many requirements listed in code The
Proposal is conceptually off it lacks
any specific specifics which is required
under statute
672806a The Proposal does not Encompass
a time period and does not specify
accounts it is purposely vague in my
opinion a Witch Hunt and harassment
motivated by politics and in no way is
to ensure accountability for a district
or public funds this proposal is
violation of Statute I would ask the
board not to approve or waste District
funds unless they can identify criminal
activity not accusations and slander
actual wrongdoing in addition records
complied in scoring processes shall be
made available to the public for
inspection when a procurement
recommendation is made into the
governing board we have not been
provided records compiled to get the
scorecard attached to the agenda another
violation of code please revisit review
we have extensive internal audits every
year members of this board and
superintendent are now suggesting that
the accounting firm who is very
reputable is incompetent I do not
believe this is the case approval of new
hires I do not see any new hires on the
agenda however know that we have new
business matter and HR Personnel working
why are they not added to the board for
approval please clarify that for us
executive session for board clerk higher
I don't see that this position was
posted on the district site please post
so other people in the community may
have the opportunity to apply when
Brandi parody was appointed to the
position it was an interim I want to be
assured that fair hiring processes are
occurring to protect the district from
litigation please clarify that public
comments according to your policy allows
for two minutes prior and two minutes
after the meeting why are you not
applying to that public if you could
clarify that would be great and since I
talked really fast
so you might address them during your
meeting thank you
[Applause]
next up Brooke Ramsey
is it Brooke or
okay
foreign
hi there my name is Brooke Ramsey I am a
fifth generation Priest River native
I have spent time as a coach in this
school district as an assistant coach in
the school district which made me very
happy today when I got to see the video
that Susan made showing that they had
suddenly found a million dollars so Andy
another secret account
makes me look forward to the fact that
now we have all this extra money we can
approve co-curricular activities pay for
the coaches including the assistant
coaches as well as pay for
transportation that's really good news
um I would also like to add
if she's suddenly found this account
most of these board members have been
here for over a year and a half why
aren't you guys doing the job so that
you would have known about this account
prior
thank you
next up Katie Ellis azer
foreign
thank you Katie elsessor
um I had my stuff on the agenda
specifically the audit proposals I'm
concerned that not all the board members
are getting the audit proposals or the
Public's not a summary sheet is fine to
help guide the discussion but the fact
that we don't even know where these
numbers are coming from and what they're
going to cover and their time frame for
completion is concerned before
proceeding I think you need to table
this item and tell those can be out
there for everyone to thoroughly look
through the proposals before you select
a proposal I think that the Pattersons
have a great idea with letting people
donate to a specified fund because I
think that's the biggest concern
everyone in our community has for a
forensic audit has to do with the cost
so if there are community members
willing to I think that's a great idea
and I think that the board should look
into how to get those segregated funds
towards it
I'm up
it's got 49 seconds
I've been timing myself and I'm only at
49 seconds
okay 49 seconds ago no I mean I've only
spoken for 49 seconds oh I'm sorry
um additionally on the facility use form
I hope you guys might take a moment on
pause on actually finalizing that just
because of the cost there's a lot of
things to take in consideration having
to do with someone using Fields versus
gym so I hope that you could table that
for a little bit further discussion on
how that would apply to certain items
um additionally I keep hearing rumors
that we're going to have Junior High
kids and Portables that's not secure I'm
very concerned as well as with the
junior high being either leased or sold
there's no rush to do this there is a
there's time for thoughts we have 41
days away from school I feel like we can
take the time to thoroughly vet all the
processes and have Community involvement
and not railroad through agendas
um I'm worried about there's rumors also
of selling the buses again and that's
not being discussed it's not on the
agenda but I'm concerned that this is
being said out there by the
superintendent to people that's
concerning to me and finally
um one of the biggest concerns I have is
public records requests are still not
being answered I have one three weeks
pending it is 10 days it's by Statute it
needs to be complied with thank you
thank you
next up is Jack M he has a total of four
minutes because he has donated time from
another uh Patron
I can't do that never mind you get to
whatever
why were five fuel cost proposals mailed
out to own jackham Jack Morales
mailed out only to have four of the five
return with addresses unknown or
undeliverable
did somebody forget all the local
addresses of the businesses that the
district does business with on the
regular hmm
or is it more Sinister than that maybe
the only company to receive the request
and submit a bid
was predetermined to receive the
contract
maybe looking into how many prior
contact contracts were given to this
company is warranted just saying
and with that said I challenge the
community to put your money where your
mouth is
donate some of the levy tax money that
you were willing to give up when you
voted yes for these reasons and many
others I'm in support of the forensic
audit therefore my wife and I will
donate five hundred dollars a month to
the school district in support of the
audit until it's completed
foreign
that's all the sheets I have are there
any
public comments that didn't fill out a
sheet
okay I need a motion to close public
comments I make a motion to close public
comments
okay go ahead
make sure she felt that sheet okay
I'm Gary go
long time uh Community member
born and raised in Idaho
lived here 69 years
I just want to say the district did
receive a bid for gas bid
but why wasn't it not
rewarded
any bid that goes out
it's a competitive bid
people that own businesses
you better bid or build a house you put
a bid you try to get the best quality
with the right amount well gas is gas
diesel is diesel there's no way you're
going to change that why isn't the
lowest bid taken
I'm asking you
your times comment where to listen okay
I'm waiting for your comment
okay
I like to say something but I'll
probably get kicked out of here
but uh like I said 69 years born and
raised raised on a farm
been here most of my life
as administrator
educator
many of you know me
I'm a straight shooter and
I don't think you could disagree with
that
but I just want to know
why
a low bid wasn't accepted
that's it thank you thank you
any need a motion to close public
comment I make a motion to close public
comments okay but first do I have a
second
I'll make a second okay I have a second
from uh trustee Hall all those in favor
closing public comments say aye aye
those opposed public comment is closed
okay um first up old business
um uh possible action item possible
selection of forensic audit firm
do you want to speak to that yeah
Mr chairman members of the uh the board
appreciate the opportunity to be here
just uh again for the record
superintendent Brandon Durst and
um
as the board is aware the
board requested on July 11th that the
has instructed me to draft and
disseminate an RFP for forensic audit
for this District
um I did so and we had a deadline set
for July 21st 2023 I would point to an
item in your packet entitled forensic
audit proposals executive summary you
can find that here
as to just want to quickly address a
couple things that I heard during public
comment that might be helpful inspection
of the proposals could have happened at
the district office that's where they
were being made available if anyone had
wanted to come and see them they were
able to do that at that time we weren't
putting them on the website due to um
concerns about
impropriety and potential bias of the
selection process which in an RFP
process which is different than the
bidding process can be protected
especially for firms that utilize
proprietary uh
an intellectual property that would make
used for the for this particular area
for other areas like this so it could
have been it could have been reviewed
but we weren't going to be putting them
online that's why if inspection had
wanted to happen if somebody wants to
come anytime in the future they will
continue to retain those records for
people to look at if they would like to
to inspect
um so the methodology that I utilized
here was just to create a rubric which
you all can see in the board packet
um
and the rubric was pretty was pretty
straightforward uh it was tied straight
directly to the RFP
and uh
emphasized the the things that I
understood the board to want to take
into consideration uh most significantly
which you'll notice that in the on the
on the rubric over half of the scoring
came from cost recognizing that there
was some sensitivity to the price of
this that was the
um that was the preeminent driver of the
scoring
um
the phase one was separated from the
others going back to trustee Hall's
suggestion that we go to a face approach
and also making sure that we would have
the opportunity to um
uh try to limit our costs if that was if
that was necessary so we could make sure
that the first phase where we get a
preliminary report
um was was going to be able to consider
within its own cost structure uh also
the ability to meet deadlines was
considered as well as the overall
timeline for completion was a
consideration of course we looked at the
ability for any uh proposal in
responsive proposal to complete the
project having worked in a space where
we had to submit bids to government
contracts before I know that that's
oftentimes quite a common thing to
include because you might get anybody
that could apply or could respond to a
proposal but they may not have the
ability to actually do the job and so
it's important to make sure that anyone
that we have was able to do so
and then also to make sure that to see
if they had any experience in public
school audits as well as specifically
audits in the state of Idaho I will
report that none of the response of
proposals had any forensic audit
experience in Idaho specifically but
that's not terribly surprising because
of the fact that there are army
districts that I could find or any
actually that I could find that have
done this at least not in the recent
history so
you can see on the back page of the
summary the overall scoring Matrix
one proposal clearly
had higher scores than others and that
was utilizing this this rubric
it had
it had expertise in the area had the
ability to do it it has a niche of
working in public school audits
it was the lowest cost for the
um
for the phase one it was able to meet
the deadline as all of them were it was
also the lowest cost overall and the one
thing that it didn't have the highest
score on was timeline I believe and I
could look at the computer I believe
they said they would have their job done
in October we had one bid that said they
could have it done in September
so that's the distinction there and then
they also had like I said they have the
best overall cost the reason I
differentiated between phase two plus
cost and total cost is because some
bidders had
cost per phase and then they also had a
digital cost that they had the kind of
pad
their their their bid or their proposal
and so the numbers weren't always the
same some some of them they were some of
them they weren't and so I thought it
was important that we capture the actual
total cost and I always utilized if if
the proposals used a range of potential
cost I always use the highest number for
all of them so that way we were using
the most conservative number we could
the number that would cost the district
the most and that was consistent with
all with all the proposals that that's
how those are scored so I'm happy to
answer any questions of the board
and be the time to you
Brandon what's the general timeline that
this audit is looking at
so this just as per the RFP which is in
your pack and I think it's addendum a uh
the The Proposal goes back five years
um it's a five-year audit from the prior
five fiscal years so 20 so July 1st 2018
to June 30th 2023.
and all the bidders understood that to
be the timeline as you can see
as would be seen in the proposals that
were submitted
okay and then
um the other question comment is that
whatever
um whichever firm we work out it needs
to
um
coordinate a certain degree with our
financial auditor whom I talked with
today who's aware of this they have seen
the RFP and this scoring because it is
public information
that will need to be and they will come
at Fourth and get hold of you know try
to get hold of you in the next day or
two so because that was supposed to
start August 7th so there's definitely a
combination so what does this firm that
you're suggesting also need an outside
person to come and help get the the
documents here's here's the
the way that the RFP was written is that
they would
cost they so the way that they most
these firms did it is they had different
levels of expertise they could be
working on the projects and those had
varying degrees of cost per level so if
you had an associate or a senior auditor
or a director level had different costs
for the district
um
most of them indicated and I think the
proposal for the one you're referring to
also indicated that to the extent that
we might be able to provide them the
records more
less expensively that they would be open
to that they would give us a sheet of
things that they needed
they would be happy to do it themselves
if they were given the proper authority
to
seek those records themselves but it was
it was a matter of saying it's up to you
guys how you'd like to proceed
I would say it's just to kind of provide
a little bit more clarity on on that
my guess is that there could be a
some cost savings to go in that
direction how much I'm not sure because
it kind of depends on how long it takes
for them to get the documents put
together it could save us a thousand
dollars I mean at the most I would say
so it's really up to the board as to
whether or not they want to proceed in
that direction or not
I would say have them do the whole thing
and not bring in out anybody else have
them do it um the other thing that I'd
like to bring forth on the board on this
forensic audit obviously I haven't seen
um trustee uh Vice chair Brown's video
today but I think any of the additional
information that relates to accounting
relates to building there needs to be a
gag order on this board not to not to
dirty the waters for the forensic audit
and the public and that the Auditors
need to do their job and it doesn't need
to be part of the political discussion
at this point once we make this decision
they need to do their job and they need
to get it done
and not we don't miss we don't mess it
with it because I had no no idea about
the million dollar account and I just
think that stuff if it's going to come
out or whatever doesn't should not be in
a video it should be let known to the
rest of the board first and the same
with the forensic audit this stuff
should not be leaked out to the public
beforehand before the rest of the board
is not aware of it
and I is there with a forensic audit how
would we set up an account I mean
there's been the question how do we set
up account because if we make a motion
it will should include setting up
account for that money to go into
simultaneously
uh Mr chairman uh trustee Hall I
actually
I think that we would need some legal
counsel on that I actually don't think
for my
my
um initial
uh idea is that the district should not
be opening an account for that purpose
that if private parties would like to
open that account and then
donate to the district with a um
with an agreement with a stipulated
donation agreement they could do that
and I think that would probably be the
most
um
clean way for us to proceed so that way
there was a clear record Trail that we
could be that could be discoverable
um if there was ever a question about
that but it could also make sure that
the district is not
exposing itself to any unreliability
that's what I that's how I would
personally recommend we proceed but
there may be a difference of opinion
from our from from legal
so it'd be something similar that we've
talked about with the extracurricular
code correct I would use the same I
would use the same mechanism and then it
could be
donated at that time Mr chairman and
trustee oh that's that's what I would
recommend we do because then if if a
group wants to go to Umpqua or wherever
and open up an account and they all just
know what the account number is and they
go in and drop off checks for that and
then they have a representative who's
assignee on that account bring a check
to the office and we have a stipulated
agreement in place then we could go that
way
okay
further comments
based on the scoring Matrix
when I just really one quick one
um we are doing it in the blind usually
we see that
and I do respect what the audience the
public has said about not seeing it in
before us can you divulge who we are now
voting for what Miss uh Mr chairman
trustee Hall Once aboard has been if if
emotion
let me step back the motion's been out
once that motion has been approved then
I can dive all to the
who it was but here's the issue I I
don't want their question of impropriety
being in place saying that we preferred
one vendor over another
um and given that I had conversations
with some vendors before I before to
just get a sense of what the RFP should
look like which I've disclosed on the on
the record here I want to make sure that
everything that we do here is is there
if if the board does want me to disclose
who the who they were I can do that but
I don't know if that's the best idea
from a legal standpoint but I'm happy to
do it
Okay so
the way I see it is that we score we we
choose the
proposal based on the scoring
that's the first step
so I would say
and I at this point I I do agree that we
need a friend that got it just to get it
Beyond it behind us and to get in and
make in clear clarify things I know that
there is
um
you know I
it's not been specifically stated to me
directly what are the allegations that
people are looking at specifically but I
know that we the forensic audit could go
ahead and maybe help clarify procedures
it would give the greater trust to the
community on certain members and for
that I am making a motion to um for
proposal four to be accepted as our
forensic audit and that one was the
lowest that was the lowest phase one and
lowest phase two but did not meet the
best timeline but it sounds like it's a
best fit and it's a local firm I'm
guessing out of Spokane if I'm if I'm
guessing correctly they have offices in
Idaho
okay so I have a motion on the floor to
accept proposal four do I have a second
I'll second that okay but first from
trustee Hall second from Vice chair
Brown all those in favor of proposal
four please say aye aye aye those
opposed
the motion carries and that was an eye
from from trustee Barton yes and and
just for the the for the board's
edification
um proposal four came from Eid Bailey
that's what I was hoping I have looked
into them I did look into them
okay
perfect
so just I know I'm outside that but it
would be good for them and I hope
um Brandon that you will
um Mr say you will go ahead and make
sure that coordination happens between
Brandon Blair and ID
Bailey because their timelines are some
basically overlapping in terms of
getting that schedule done and I would
say too if the board
um wants if anyone in the either the
public or the board wants to come
inspect the proposal and say I'll be at
the district office for them to do so
thank you
okay
next up is a possible action item
approval of the 2023-2024 launch prices
do I have a motion to I'll make a motion
to bring that to the table the approval
of 2023-2024 school lunch prices okay I
have a motion do I have a second I'll
second that okay
if I sure Brown seconds discussion
do you need me to present it again Mr
chairman yes yes please
okay
so uh Mr chairman and members of the
board are
food service manager or director uh
Terry Johnson asked me to present this
for her she wasn't able to be here
tonight and I said I'd be happy to do it
and I know just to kind of clear up any
potential confusion for the board
at the most recent regular meeting in
June
this came under two separate sections
but really the same thing they're
they're dealing with the same topic and
so that's why it was my recommendation
to the chairman and to the clerk that we
consolidate these because they're
ultimately the same thing we can't
really
they we can't accept one and not the
other basically so uh
Terry told me that you know a lot of the
the ple is
is federally directed it's a formula
they create it's not something that we
have any discretion on if we I said I I
asked her I said just give me the brass
tax Terry I said what happens if we
don't adopt this and she says you might
lose her all of our school lunch funding
for next year
and I said okay well that's all I need
to know and
um so
just so we are all clear on what we're
looking at the prices would be changed
for the elementary school to be 350 and
then for the um for the secondary school
to be 375. and that would be consistent
with the ple which is the pricing
algorithm that function that they use to
come to how much things should be they
have to be within a certain
um a few cents of what the
pricing is supposed to be and they do
that by calculating how much was paid
how many people utilized it and a bunch
of factors like that and that's how that
number is derived it's like I said she
just plugs it into a into a worksheet
into a formula and it spits out this is
how much your school lunch program
should be you'll notice that
um
what she's done actually she's reduced
the cost for the elementary students
by a little bit and she's put it back up
to the on the secondary which is already
hit higher anyways because secondary you
know lunches cost more because they're
larger in quantity so
um but it makes it easy a 350 is a lot
easier to count out if she was being
really specific it should be 355 but um
as a parent I can't imagine trying to
find a nickel every morning
um to give to Mike to if you're one of
my kids so you know it's a lot easier
just to do things on quarters which is
why she ended up where she did just for
from a feasibility standpoint so I don't
have much more to add I can answer your
questions potentially but
um
from what I can tell this is this is a
must pass thing so we can you know
Supply our kids with lunch meals okay
sure any other questions
one question is how much is it looks
like eleven thousand three twenty nine
well 65 will be a little less because
it's a little but I guess how much is
this has she projected how much a
deficit we might run into at the end of
the because we usually unfortunately run
a deficit with the school program it
sounds like it and Mr chairman trustee
Hall
I apologize for not having the perfect
answer to your question but when I the
way that I understood it was she said
that this will get us very close to
meeting Our obligation from a payment so
there's little arrears
I mean that's assuming payment is made
you know we have I mean if people don't
pay then there's a different issue there
but
um
if payment is made then we should be
close to Breaking Haven
I will make a motion to approve the
proposed meal prices for the adults for
the adults and the students okay trustee
Hall makes a motion to uh
approve the lunch schedule as noted our
lunch
prices is noted do I have a second I'll
second that Vice chair Brown seconds all
in favor please say hi uh clarification
it's breakfast and lunch make sure we
get them okay breakfast and lunch okay
all those in favor say aye
aye those opposed okay the motion
carries unanimously
next up possible action consideration
and approval of the new bus purchase do
I have a motion to discuss a new bus
proposal purchase I'll make a motion to
discuss the new or the possible purchase
of a new bus
okay I have a motion on the floor by
Vice chair Brown do I have a second
I'll second it okay
debate
um any details we need to know about on
this one it's I actually I don't see
Harlow which is a normal one that we see
I just see the bluebird one so yeah so
my understanding from speaking with
um Mrs Overland and others is that this
is kind of uh we need to take advantage
of this now or we're gonna have to wait
another year situation and so we have
two buses that need to go to
um
standpoint I think to be
cut and smashed so we can get reimbursed
but those have to be spent on yellows to
to reimburse them but that's as part of
that process that we have to go through
to be on the right schedule
and any recent did Virginia say any
reason why because it's usually we get a
Harlow's
um Troy isn't correct we get a Harlow's
bid on this usually I'm just curious
that we're just getting the blue and I
don't have any detail on that I just
know I I do know that she said we're
probably already a month behind anyway
from where we should have been okay but
um
she said we need to get this done as
fast as we can I can't but I to be
honest the trustee Hall I don't know the
details on and was there a choice that
we needed to make there's two size buses
are is there do we need to determine
which bus we want are we looking at both
of them just for clarification
um that I'm not sure and I don't want to
there's a 54 and then there's a 71 yeah
my guess is that I think we're replacing
two I think we're we're terminating
service with two of the longer ones so
my guess would be that we would need to
get a longer one to replace it
but again I don't want to
I don't want to say that for certainty
because I'm not 100 sure I was less
briefed on this particular issue
um this one is a gasoline engine it's
not a diesel
okay but I I did see one that was 54
seats and then there was one for 71
seats and that's what I'm trying I
thought I swear there was one percent
unless it's got oh that's
did it get taken out of it did I miss
you yeah
it's just this we're only looking at a
71 Cedar the earlier packet had a you
know I think we still have a 54.
well I guess the 54 got removed all
right sorry
okay that just when I download it last
you know try to be on top to be able to
read it beforehand
um I look at one thing and then it gets
switched on me so all right so it's just
a 71 so there's no question yeah the
other thing of note when when I spoke
with Virginia is that the two buses that
this is replacing uh we received uh
fifty thousand dollars for those from
the federal program each no total total
total so it'll cover uh just about half
of the the replacement costs on this
so the total replacement cost on us will
be about 62 000. okay it's cheap in your
microcardic in here oh I'm sorry yes
that's what I was just gonna
happen okay I'm sorry um
the the total cost of this bus will be
about 62
000 and some change because we get uh
twenty five thousand dollars per bus
when we take two buses off out of
circulation they go through a federal
program to take them off the road so we
get reimbursed 25 000 each for those
buses
can that money be used on one bus
instead of two yes yes
according to Virginia when she when we
were talking okay can you say that again
according to Virginia when we were
talking those two buses can be used on
this this bus
the refund the funding from it yes okay
so I'll make a motion to approve the bid
from um Bluebird for the 70 boys theater
bus
okay trusty Hall makes a motion to
accept the bid
for the 71-seat bus from Bluebird do I
have a second I'll second that
okay I have a second from Vice chair
Brown all those in favor say aye aye
those opposed okay it's a unanimous
all right next up is a
first reading consideration for
amendment of policy 8100
-1 leasing of school buses
is this what
is it in our packets it's just a
statement from Virginia stating that
I'll bring I'll just bring I'll make a
motion to bring it should be
disconsideration of a new policy 84
lease um oh here it is one leasing of
school buses she made a recommendation
to create that policy it's not the
policy
so I make a I make a motion to bring
Virginia's letter to the table it's not
an action item I guess well it would be
an action item to create the policy okay
I have a motion from trustee Hall to
bring
um Virginia overland's letter to the
table for discussion for possible
um uh policy
do I have a second
all second okay I have a second from
Vice chair Brown
discussion
um I think I would recommend that we
follow Virginia's policy and create an
84.
um
dash one for potential leasing of school
buses I know that the district didn't
realize that we needed that was probably
something that's we haven't been doing
and needs to be done so I would say
let's close it and it could be a method
of make we do make some money on it I
mean we do lease the buses and we do
charge people when they are leased for
weddings and things like that on
occasion so I would I would make a
motion well the the the okay
the activity trips buses may not be
loaned or leased to non-school groups
and less permission okay I got it okay
so but basically we'd be
cleaning up her policies by including a
policy 84 101-1
okay so we need to create it okay so I
have a motion on the floor to create a
policy 8100-1 8 400-1 8 400-1 sorry
do I have a second
Troy Reinbold seconds or to trustee
rainbow seconds all in favor say aye
aye aye aye those opposed okay the
motion carries
okay next up is the second reading of
enrollment policies
uh 3010 3010 f 3010p
I need a motion to bring these to the
floor I'll make a motion to bring 3010f
or 3010 3010f and 3010p to the floor and
it's the Open Enrollment policies okay I
have a first from trustee Hall do I have
a second I'll second that I have a
second from Vice chair Brown to uh bring
up enrollment policies three thousand
ten three thousand tenf 3010p
discussion
I think we had to make a choice we read
them before
I had no problems with 3010
um
I with three thousand
um excuse me wait a minute
the 3010 there I did not see any changes
that were needed with 3010 F I did see
we even needed to make a choice
um it hadn't been cleared the choice it
looks like make sure that we change it
to include District under application
and approval process okay
um
and
is everyone see that
what's up did you see that
that work
um
because this is the one where trustee
reinbolt had wanted to make sure if a
student was currently in the district
they couldn't get bumped by another
student correct if someone knew was
coming in yes and that was included I
think there's a couple of places that
that is included I think it's in P yeah
and one of them okay perfect thing yeah
down at the bottom
there's a first come first serve and
then we need to identify under first
come first serve
um 30 10 P we need to look at
on page
three of that
we need to make sure that the full
District name is put in there or resides
in the West Palmer County School
District is to be included you see that
there
and and then the class size was
identified here as 21 21 27 20.
so we identified the class sizes that
would be acceptable not a hundred
students non-60 students right plus no
160 students per teacher per day or core
classroom of 26.
okay
so it looks like we striked out 21 but
21 is what we have talked about right
it's still 21 21 37 for whatever reason
I'm not sure but then 20. maybe it's
because it was hard to read and then I
don't know I'm not sure why okay do you
guys still agree 21 for a classroom size
yep
and I think this was the administrators
I think looked at this they did yeah I
remember Lynn talking about it
okay any other discussion
um the only question I've got and Mr
Durst Adrian and um are you able to
under
3010 p a
or 3010 p 5.
at the bottom it's above the students
with disabilities
that's second paragraph from the bottom
says board must issue that thing says
the board versus the superintendent of
the receiving School must render a
decision to the parent Guardian
for at their next regular meeting and
the board must issue their decision in
writing
the decision of the board may be
appealed to the State Board of Education
is that the new that is that I'm trying
to find where you're at trustee call oh
it's on page five of the 3010p
second paragraph up from the bottom
because you're right we talked about
that last time should it be
superintendent or should it be born
the second paragraph yeah
seems like an interesting place to have
it appealed to is the State Board of
Education it could take quite a while
if it's on a regular meeting cycle yeah
so
Mr chairman trustee Hall I would say
it is a little bit strange but just
knowing in other places in Idaho code
and
um
where the appealable decision can go to
the State Board of Education I suspect
in light of the fact that this is now a
state law that there has
a property right that's that exists for
the students who to request that and so
that's why they've cued in the
um the State Board of Education to make
that final determination because it's
now state law instead of a foreign
policy for each individual District
those were the only things that I noted
on those those items that I just
mentioned
okay
and I don't think there's I'm just
making sure we don't have to adopt I
think okay
do I have a motion to accept policies as
as noted
I'll make a motion to accept the
policies 30 10
and 3010 p as noted
also 3010f oh sorry 30 10 f
M okay so the police clarify your motion
make a motion to approve the policies
3010 a 3010 F and 3010p okay as noted
okay so it's just 30 10 but all those in
favor I mean I need a second I'll second
it we'll take him that motion all those
in favor of of accepting policies 30 10
30 10f 3010p please say aye aye aye
those opposed okay policies are adapt
adopted on the second reading
next up are board member reports do we
have any board member reports
I just a couple of quick ones I just
want to inform the other members of the
board that negotiations we will have
another follow-up um chair Rutledge and
myself or have been in negotiations on
the negotiations committee and we will
have our next follow-up meeting on
Monday
July 31st at 5 pm at the district office
we have a tentative backup date for a
second one on August 1st Tuesday August
1st
that hopefully at 5 PM I've been working
hard with Mr Durst to come up with help
to figure out you know crunch some
numbers figure out some numbers in that
process
furthermore I've been there's it will be
a presentation this afternoon very at
the end for the extracurricular
co-curricular that put together it's a
summary of trustee Bartons and myself
the work sessions and the findings from
those and then just very briefly I've
had too much time to look at all the
things that have been going on in social
media but I do want a couple of
clarifications
in terms of the legal attorney issue I
did reach out to Post Falls in Coeur
d'Alene they do have other my only beef
with our attorney a picking one attorney
and abdicating to trust chair Rutledge
was that I wanted to be part of that
process there's lines of Doubt down in
Coeur d'Alene that's an educational
attorney there's Anderson Julian Hall
that we could have chosen that St Mary's
uses and Chris jorgeson his specialty is
Charter Schools but he does have a
background in education law but I just
would have liked to have had that due
diligence in terms of the indication of
the check and I think there was an
insinuation that I was the chair at the
time that that check the wrong name was
on that student body account it actually
happened when I switched from chair when
I was chair and it switched over to
chair Rutledge there was just a gap in
that it was unfortunately a wrong it was
a mistake by picking the Wong one it was
the student body account not the big
general fund and finally in terms of the
curriculum and bringing it back to the
board I just want to go on record that
Vice the vice chair at that time and
myself spent I would say several hours
discussing it back and forth I was not
taking it lightly I we were looking at
it seriously and it was not my decision
alone to make that I didn't feel so and
I I
did talk with the vice chair at that
time to make that decision and according
to Robert's Rules of orders two board
members need to bring something to the
chair if they're going to change it I
did talk with chair Rutledge to make
that our vice chair Rutledge at the time
and as I said it took several hours I
know there's other issues out there but
with negotiations and extracurricular
and where we're going that's primary on
my time and I don't and the looking at
the forensic audit making a decent
decision that's my priority not what's
behind us what I'm looking at is where
we're going
foreign
Mr chair and the board I have been
looking at a program that I'd like to
have us put on the agenda for next month
it's virtual learning and for some
students that might have some
limitations
some of the the information that I'll
share next month might be something that
we'd want to look at where we could
actually utilize some of our
paraprofessionals in helping and giving
students some real one-on-one time it
encompasses history math science all
types of things and I think it might be
a real good venue to take a good look at
so I'd like to have that added for next
month is there
I'll get it to you
okay any other comments
okay next up are principal reports do we
have any principles okay treasurer's
report
Mr chairman
um
Melissa can you hear us you're on
there you go
yes I'm so sorry about that
um
for the record my name is Melissa Riley
and I am the interim business manager
and I just completed my first week
working for the district
um so you stood in parking that the
budget is apparently in the final stages
of preparation it's said to be presented
for approval at the upcoming board
meeting next week
and at that time we'll have more
detailed information
April was helpful
and optimistic about several points
[Music]
okay any questions from the board
no we we will be getting the breakdown
of the budget next week on Wednesday
correct
foreign
you are talking to me in my apologies
and we were just asking if we're going
to get the breakdown on the budget next
week
yes that's the goal we're working on
that right now okay thank you
okay any other questions
okay thank you
next up is a superintendent's report
okay Mr chairman
um
uh I have a lot of things to report some
but I'll try to keep it brief
um
obviously the district has been moving
uh
expeditiously to fill positions I know
there was questions about whether or not
those had been placed on front line and
other locations they have been in
accordance with board policy those
positions have all been placed
and we've been utilizing our districts
um
procedures in that are
k6 admins have been interviewing
candidates for those open positions we
have some other positions that we are
interviewing for
last weekend we'll continue to do that
throughout this week as well so that's
number one so we're getting we're
finding some pretty high quality
candidates who've applied for positions
here and we're excited about that as
[Music]
Mrs Riley just indicated we're
diligently working on completing the
budget so it can be proposed so it can
be presented to
um
to the board for next week's
consideration and ultimately hopefully
get it sent to the state by August 4th
which is the deadline they've given us
to get things to them and so that is
that is where we are right now
um I can share and I'm excited to share
this
um
I was informed this morning and I
apologize to trustee Hall I yeah and I
didn't tell trustee Reinbold this either
because neither you guys weren't at the
office this morning that you had to be
but happened to be that Mr Mr Chairman's
religion trustee Brown did stop by so I
shared it with them
um
I discovered this morning that we had a
896 thousand dollar payment coming from
the county that will be delivered next
week and that money was the part of the
leftover money from the levy that we had
that money has to be spent in the next
fiscal year or this current fiscal year
uh it doesn't have to be but it has to
be spent on anything that's related to
the that was for the levy so
as you might be able to imagine that
could cover every penny that's needed
for or extracurricular and co-curricular
I would note that the previous budget
did not include this money at all all we
had in the previous local Revenue was
133 000 333 900 for our tort Levy that
we collect not any of this other money
we also still have about a hundred and
fifty thousand dollars of money still to
be collected on that Levy in addition to
the 896 000 that we're going to be
getting next week so
um that is to say that we've uh we're
I'm pretty excited about that I'm glad
that we the office was able to do due
diligence to find out what we actually
had coming to us and we were able to
utilize that to make a better decision
when it comes to our to our budgeting
for this current fiscal year
um
[Applause]
I think that's I think that's a real win
that's a real win for our for our
students frankly and it's going to allow
us to do a lot of things that we need to
do going forward I've been meeting with
uh I met with our admin team this
morning or this afternoon for about two
and a half hours and we went over a lot
of different things related to hiring
we're going to be posting a curriculum
director position that will assist with
helping our uh our lower achieving
students improve their outcomes
something that I mentioned that I wanted
to do and we're going to continue to do
that we came we came to an agreement on
how that that should be should be
announced so we are we're definitely
heading in the right direction I'm
excited about some of the progress we're
making and
um and I'm excited to to get the budget
finalized so we can so we can get to the
business of educating children so which
levies because almost sounds like that's
an accumulative group of levies that the
money
so that came from the levy that we that
we previously had that was not continued
that that money that was already
um because there's four levies that
we're still sort of seeing money on is
is that the cumulative yes that is the
cumulative so when I talked to the um
auditor's office this morning
um they said of the levees that that of
the amounts that were still to be
collected they had they were cutting a
check for 896 800 859 so roughly 897
thousand dollars to be sent to the
district next week and then of that
amount there was still 155 000 to be
collected which could be collected
anytime in the next you know 12 months
however long it takes for for property
taxpayers to get current and with
extension things like that so I would
like for the record to have those broken
down to each of the levees because we've
got you know we've got I think 2018 19
2019 20 2020 2021 we need to know which
levies because that money wasn't spent
some of that money was not spent because
and I don't know if you know we to
figure this out was that for facilities
projects that had been put off until you
know that had been postponed right or
part of that is for the curriculum I
mean if that's the money that we are
that's identified for you know was
identified for a specific costs we need
to make sure that we don't go ahead and
say oh my we're going to spend it yeah
hey we need to make sure that we
understand what it was what was
designated for and that would come out
of looking each at each one of those
levees and seeing what unspent projects
there were because that's why there
there was some money there because those
projects were supposed to be done or
curriculum supposed to be bought so we
we don't want to go ahead and spend it
and realize oh my gosh we got to the end
of the day and we say we're going to do
that and can we interest Ms chairman
trustee Hall it's it's my understanding
that this was all from the most recent
Levy but I will call back and talk to
the into the auditor's office to confirm
that and I'll refer to our L2 as well to
see what collections we've had
presumably the the auditor's office has
been taking property tax payments and
paying us out from oldest Levy to newest
Levy and so anything that was left over
from the prior ones would have already
been paid out and given the amount of
money that's so low
um clearly we've paid out the other
prior three already because there's only
150 000 remaining now after the most
recent payment but I I can definitely
find out exactly if they can give us a a
line item of which Levy so we know
because those are restricted funds so we
know exactly how they can be spent yeah
because I would be careful like I mean
it's really it would be great but we
want to make sure that we didn't say
because I know there may have been some
there were some items there for
facilities that we were going to be you
know I think Ken was going to work on
even this summer and we just need to
figure that out before we just and then
figure out what is actually left yeah
absolutely
okay
but that's great news I mean if that
money's there that's that's great I just
want to make sure we're not spending
when we you know on something that was
designated okay that's it thank you Mr
chairman okay
next up is consent agenda I need a
motion to bring the consent agenda to
the table for consideration
I make a motion to bring the consent
agenda to the table okay
motion from Vice chair Brown do I have a
second
I'll second it okay I have a second from
trustee Hall to bring the consent agenda
to the floor
questions debate
um the RWC group what was that for
um
Mr chairman Madam
trustee Hall
um I believe that's related to
um
you can look at the documents on on the
packet but I mean I believe that's
something for the technology team that
we have to pay for is that right Ron
oh okay okay
thank you thank you Ryan
um and sonic wall
that's a technology for sonic wall Ron
I can say just just to add some levity
to the conversation trustee Hall
um
the uh
the boundary tractor that's for a deck
that can order two years ago for one of
the for one of the lawn mowers I did see
that there was
so it's a couple years old but it
finally showed up and it's about a
thirty thousand dollar mower that will
now be able to start using again so
pretty late on the date yeah yeah it's
pretty late at least we got it
so I'm Ron Cruz technology director for
the record
um Marty the Meraki Network or the sonic
wall is the for the adult content
filtering by federal law since we get
e-rate funds we have to do abide by the
children internet protection act which
means we have to do adult content
filtering on any uh of our devices
SonicWALL covers all of our desktops and
we use ibos which was already paid for
for our all those student laptops
in the ednetics is up for all the new
updated software so the ednetics is all
of our network devices the access points
and the switches require a license
um and it looks like a lot they gave us
two quotes a one-year quote and a
three-year quote so we have 114
different devices and each one has to
have its own license so if you break
that out it's about 100 bucks a year so
if you think of your cell phone what
your cell phone costs per month you know
we're paying 100 bucks a year for each
of these devices we have 114 devices
like I said so this is the license to
allow us to use those to have all of our
Network
and if we don't pay it by July 29th we
no longer have a computer network okay
so okay got it okay
I mean I can't pull it
okay I'll make a motion to
um approve the consent agenda okay I
have a motion from trustee hall for to
approve the consent agenda do I have a
second
I'm sorry to see those that resigned
um leave I want to recognize Ken's hard
work on a lot of things
you know all of them
and Mr superintendent how how many
people have we hired already
semester
um
Mr chairman uh Vice chairman Brown uh we
haven't had any official new hires yet
okay
um the reason is because uh temporary
staff aren't considered new hires and so
anyone now we expect to be making offers
for employment on a pretty quick clip so
the next time we have this meeting this
list is going to get pretty long pretty
fast okay
next up is a new business first up is
consideration and approval of facilities
use agreement
so I think this is there was a
miscommunications if this is the one
that I forwarded it belongs under the
budget Gap and work session results
discussion oh this is okay this is a
different one and it's not in it is um
the gun clubs
okay it didn't show up in the packet
okay um Phil make a motion to bring it
to the table okay okay and I second that
I have a first from trustee Hall second
from Vice chair Brown
12 years Martin
thank you ladies and gentlemen uh Martin
Nagel from Community 97 where the guys
that bring the gun show twice a year
same thing 20 some years of doing this
um I think you guys all know the story
but uh
some 75 vendors are involved sometimes a
little more sometimes just a little bit
less guns ammo leather accessory hunting
some of you may even have bought your
first hunting rifle at our gun show
you're young enough
we give
two one thousand dollar scholarships to
the high school each year
and we give 1500 to a thousand fifteen
hundred dollars to the junior high for
the exclusive use of the principal for
things that are not budgeted
it's been
the back door I think was the very first
thing we did because there was a piece
of rebar that kept the back door locked
and there was uh wrestling mats and
audio system
paper and pencils shoes
all kinds of different things have been
given to the kids over the years from
our donation we never had any trouble
our donations to the junior high have
exceeded probably 25 000 we never kept
real good count of it but about 25
000 or
period of time we started at the at the
industrial park
and
also we've been using Mrs English who
retired this year I believe as our
custodian and we're happy to take care
of
whatever cost she has
so we usually give her a donation anyway
we're requesting use of a gun show or
the junior high for the gun show August
22nd which is Friday for setup
22nd 23rd and clean up on Sunday the
25th so it's
two and a half days really
okay any questions
any questions um that this is a question
for the board
are we have we suspended use of
facilities at this point I mean I'm
gonna
because we had a suspended use of
facilities until we had figured out the
budget hadn't we
have a certain degree for outside groups
and the only if we have then it we may
need to do a sort of a caveat I know
that um
that there has been quite a donate
you've been making donations so I guess
I would look at suspending if we have
suspended it
that we might look at because of the
donations that you give
um that there's you know that they might
be can I speak I'll speak to this these
guys are so
good okay these guys are
self-supported it looks like
um so I don't see a problem with this we
don't need a lot of support for the
district
right but if we decide here then we need
to make that same we we need to do that
we can't make this a press if we do this
then we will make it a precedent and I
guess what I'm saying is that they are
self-supportive but we just need to know
that we're making the precedent of
another group comes up and says they
want to use the community that one of
the facilities or the buildings that we
realize that that's you know we're
making that precedent but I'm also
recognizing the donations that they make
to scholarship and to the junior high
are always substantial I mean they're a
good
um and that's what I would be looking at
is the donation that they're making as
sort of why we are
momentarily making that exception
because we have suspended use of the
buildings at this time okay
so if that makes it clear I just we
we're set we've suspended it then we're
letting it go then we're changing our
precedent so I want to make sure we're
following you know establishing a
precedent that we and hopefully we can
change that it's not an issue but
um but they're they take care of it
themselves they give us a great donation
and I think that I'm recognizing that as
why we are maybe making the exception
okay so noted okay do I have a motion on
floor two except
um
uh this proposal
I do make a motion on the floor to
accept it I am always still it's a
little hard to say a gun show at a
school but I know it is Idaho code and I
can't hold it up so I recognize the good
you know that you do take care of it you
do are very conscientious about it
um I just wish there would have been
another place in the community besides
the schools because of all the school
shootings but and I recognize and thank
you for your donations safest place in
town
okay I have a I have a motion on the
floor to uh for facilities use agreement
for the uh Gun Club do I have a second I
second that okay
okay I'm both second so all in favor say
aye aye aye those opposed okay the
motion carries
so I want to say thank you to the police
department and the sheriff's department
for their drive-bys and their
walkthroughs
the vendors like it thank you very much
thank you
next up I need a motion to go into
executive session as a as provided in
Idaho code 74-206 one uh a hiring board
Clerk
I'll make a motion to go into executive
session 74 206 one one a
board clerk hiring board okay I have a
motion on the floor but I trustee Hall
ah second that I have a second bye Vice
chair Brown to go into executive session
as provided in Idaho code 74-206 one a
roll call please Brandi
here
trustee Hall here trustee Barton
here trustee Reinbold
and chair Rutledge here
we are now in executive session
okay good
temperature
for sure
I got all sorts of times oh my gosh okay
then it was installed come here yeah
thank you wow thank you so much
thank you
foreign